README.md, before:

# StructArrays

[![CI](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+branch%3Amaster)
[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl?branch=master)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://JuliaArrays.github.io/StructArrays.jl/dev)

This package introduces the type `StructArray` which is an `AbstractArray` whose elements are `struct` (for example `NamedTuples`,  or `ComplexF64`, or a custom user defined `struct`). While a `StructArray` iterates `structs`, the layout is column based (meaning each field of the `struct` is stored in a separate `Array`).

`Base.getproperty` or the dot syntax can be used to access columns, whereas rows can be accessed with `getindex`.

The package was largely inspired by the `Columns` type in [IndexedTables](https://github.com/JuliaComputing/IndexedTables.jl) which it now replaces.

## Example usage to store complex numbers

```julia
julia> using StructArrays, Random

julia> Random.seed!(4);

julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}((rand(2,2), rand(2,2)))
2×2 StructArray(::Array{Float64,2}, ::Array{Float64,2}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 0.680079+0.625239im   0.92407+0.267358im
 0.874437+0.737254im  0.929336+0.804478im

julia> s[1, 1]
0.680079235935741 + 0.6252391193298537im

julia> s.re
2×2 Array{Float64,2}:
 0.680079  0.92407
 0.874437  0.929336

julia> StructArrays.components(s) # obtain all field arrays as a named tuple
(re = [0.680079 0.92407; 0.874437 0.929336], im = [0.625239 0.267358; 0.737254 0.804478])
```

Note that the same approach can be used directly from an `Array` of complex numbers:

```julia
julia> StructArray([1+im, 3-2im])
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype Complex{Int64}:
 1 + 1im
 3 - 2im
```

### Collection and initialization

One can also create a `StructArray` from an iterable of structs without creating an intermediate `Array`:

```julia
julia> StructArray(log(j+2.0*im) for j in 1:10)
10-element StructArray(::Array{Float64,1}, ::Array{Float64,1}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 0.8047189562170501 + 1.1071487177940904im
 1.0397207708399179 + 0.7853981633974483im
 1.2824746787307684 + 0.5880026035475675im
 1.4978661367769954 + 0.4636476090008061im
  1.683647914993237 + 0.3805063771123649im
 1.8444397270569681 + 0.3217505543966422im
  1.985145956776061 + 0.27829965900511133im
 2.1097538525880535 + 0.24497866312686414im
 2.2213256282451583 + 0.21866894587394195im
 2.3221954495706862 + 0.19739555984988078im
```

Another option is to create an uninitialized `StructArray` and then fill it with data. Just like in normal arrays, this is done with the `undef` syntax:

```julia
julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}(undef, 2, 2)
2×2 StructArray(::Array{Float64,2}, ::Array{Float64,2}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im  6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im
 6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im  6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im

julia> rand!(s)
2×2 StructArray(::Array{Float64,2}, ::Array{Float64,2}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 0.680079+0.874437im  0.625239+0.737254im
  0.92407+0.929336im  0.267358+0.804478im
```

### Using custom array types

StructArrays supports using custom array types. It is always possible to pass field arrays of a custom type. The "custom array of structs to struct of custom arrays" transformation will use the `similar` method of the custom array type. This can be useful when working on the GPU for example:

```julia
julia> using StructArrays, CuArrays

julia> a = CuArray(rand(Float32, 10));

julia> b = CuArray(rand(Float32, 10));

julia> StructArray{ComplexF32}((a, b))
10-element StructArray(::CuArray{Float32,1}, ::CuArray{Float32,1}) with eltype Complex{Float32}:
  0.19555175f0 + 0.9604322f0im
  0.68348145f0 + 0.5778245f0im
  0.69664395f0 + 0.79825306f0im
 0.118531585f0 + 0.3031248f0im
  0.80057466f0 + 0.8964418f0im
  0.63772964f0 + 0.2923274f0im
  0.65374136f0 + 0.7932533f0im
   0.6043732f0 + 0.65964353f0im
   0.1106627f0 + 0.090207934f0im
    0.707458f0 + 0.1700114f0im

julia> c = CuArray(rand(ComplexF32, 10));

julia> StructArray(c)
10-element StructArray(::Array{Float32,1}, ::Array{Float32,1}) with eltype Complex{Float32}:
  0.7176411f0 + 0.864058f0im
   0.252609f0 + 0.14824867f0im
 0.26842773f0 + 0.9084332f0im
 0.33128333f0 + 0.5106474f0im
  0.6509278f0 + 0.87059164f0im
  0.9522146f0 + 0.053706646f0im
   0.899577f0 + 0.63242567f0im
   0.325814f0 + 0.59225655f0im
 0.56267905f0 + 0.21927536f0im
 0.49719965f0 + 0.754143f0im
```

If you already have your data in a `StructArray` with field arrays of a given format (say plain `Array`) you can change them with `replace_storage`:

```julia
julia> s = StructArray([1.0+im, 2.0-im])
2-element StructArray(::Array{Float64,1}, ::Array{Float64,1}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 1.0 + 1.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> replace_storage(CuArray, s)
2-element StructArray(::CuArray{Float64,1}, ::CuArray{Float64,1}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 1.0 + 1.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im
```

## Example usage to store a data table

```julia
julia> t = StructArray((a = [1, 2], b = ["x", "y"]))
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{String,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,String}}:
 (a = 1, b = "x")
 (a = 2, b = "y")

julia> t[1]
(a = 1, b = "x")

julia> t.a
2-element Array{Int64,1}:
 1
 2

julia> push!(t, (a = 3, b = "z"))
3-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{String,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,String}}:
 (a = 1, b = "x")
 (a = 2, b = "y")
 (a = 3, b = "z")
```

### Lazy row iteration

StructArrays also provides a `LazyRow` wrapper for lazy row iteration. `LazyRow(t, i)` does not materialize the i-th row but returns a lazy wrapper around it on which `getproperty` does the correct thing. This is useful when the row has many fields only some of which are necessary. It also allows changing columns in place.

```julia
julia> t = StructArray((a = [1, 2], b = ["x", "y"]));

julia> LazyRow(t, 2).a
2

julia> LazyRow(t, 2).a = 123
123

julia> t
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{String,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,String}}:
 (a = 1, b = "x")
 (a = 123, b = "y")
```

To iterate in a lazy way one can simply iterate `LazyRows`:

```julia
julia> map(t -> t.b ^ t.a, LazyRows(t))
2-element Array{String,1}:
 "x"
 "yy"
```

## Advanced: structures with non-standard data layout

StructArrays support structures with custom data layout. The user is required to overload `staticschema` in order to define the custom layout, `component` to access fields of the custom layout, and `createinstance(T, fields...)` to create an instance of type `T` from its custom fields `fields`. In other word, given `x::T`, `createinstance(T, (component(x, f) for f in fieldnames(staticschema(T)))...)` should successfully return an instance of type `T`.

Here is an example of a type `MyType` that has as custom fields either its field `data` or fields of its field `rest` (which is a named tuple):

```julia
using StructArrays

struct MyType{T, NT<:NamedTuple}
    data::T
    rest::NT
end

MyType(x; kwargs...) = MyType(x, values(kwargs))

function StructArrays.staticschema(::Type{MyType{T, NamedTuple{names, types}}}) where {T, names, types}
    return NamedTuple{(:data, names...), Base.tuple_type_cons(T, types)}
end

function StructArrays.component(m::MyType, key::Symbol)
    return key === :data ? getfield(m, 1) : getfield(getfield(m, 2), key)
end

# generate an instance of MyType type
function StructArrays.createinstance(::Type{MyType{T, NT}}, x, args...) where {T, NT}
    return MyType(x, NT(args))
end

s = [MyType(rand(), a=1, b=2) for i in 1:10]
StructArray(s)
```

In the above example, our `MyType` was composed of `data` of type `Float64` and `rest` of type `NamedTuple`. In many practical cases where there are custom types involved it's hard for StructArrays to automatically widen the types in case they are heterogeneous. The following example demonstrates a widening method in that scenario.

```julia
using Tables

# add a source of custom type data
struct Location{U}
    x::U
    y::U
end
struct Region{V}
    area::V
end

s1 = MyType(Location(1, 0), place = "Delhi", rainfall = 200)
s2 = MyType(Location(2.5, 1.9), place = "Mumbai", rainfall = 1010)
s3 = MyType(Region([Location(1, 0), Location(2.5, 1.9)]), place = "North India", rainfall = missing)

s = [s1, s2, s3]
# Now if we try to do StructArray(s)
# we will get an error

function meta_table(iter)
    cols = Tables.columntable(iter)
    meta_table(first(cols), Base.tail(cols)) 
end

function meta_table(data, rest::NT) where NT<:NamedTuple
    F = MyType{eltype(data), StructArrays.eltypes(NT)}
    return StructArray{F}(; data=data, rest...)
end

meta_table(s)
```

The above strategy has been tested and implemented in [GeometryBasics.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGeometry/GeometryBasics.jl).

## Advanced: mutate-or-widen style accumulation

StructArrays provides a function `StructArrays.append!!(dest, src)` (unexported) for "mutate-or-widen" style accumulation.  This function can be used via [`BangBang.append!!`](https://juliafolds.github.io/BangBang.jl/dev/#BangBang.append!!) and [`BangBang.push!!`](https://juliafolds.github.io/BangBang.jl/dev/#BangBang.push!!) as well.

`StructArrays.append!!` works like `append!(dest, src)` if `dest` can contain all element types in `src` iterator; i.e., it _mutates_ `dest` in-place:

```julia
julia> dest = StructVector((a=[1], b=[2]))
1-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,Int64}}:
 (a = 1, b = 2)

julia> StructArrays.append!!(dest, [(a = 3, b = 4)])
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,Int64}}:
 (a = 1, b = 2)
 (a = 3, b = 4)

julia> ans === dest
true
```

Unlike `append!`, `append!!` can also _widen_ element type of `dest` array:

```julia
julia> StructArrays.append!!(dest, [(a = missing, b = 6)])
3-element StructArray(::Array{Union{Missing, Int64},1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}:
 NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}((1, 2))
 NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}((3, 4))
 NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}((missing, 6))

julia> ans === dest
false
```

Since the original array `dest` cannot hold the input, a new array is created (`ans !== dest`).

Combined with [function barriers](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/performance-tips/#kernel-functions-1), `append!!` is a useful building block for implementing `collect`-like functions.

## Advanced: using StructArrays in CUDA kernels

It is possible to combine StructArrays with [CUDAnative](https://github.com/JuliaGPU/CUDAnative.jl), in order to create CUDA kernels that work on StructArrays directly on the GPU. Make sure you are familiar with the CUDAnative documentation (esp. kernels with plain `CuArray`s) before experimenting with kernels based on `StructArray`s.

```julia
using CUDAnative, CuArrays, StructArrays
d = StructArray(a = rand(100), b = rand(100))

# move to GPU
dd = replace_storage(CuArray, d)
de = similar(dd)

# a simple kernel, to copy the content of `dd` onto `de`
function kernel!(dest, src)
    i = (blockIdx().x-1)*blockDim().x + threadIdx().x
    if i <= length(dest)
        dest[i] = src[i]
    end
    return nothing
end

threads = 1024
blocks = cld(length(dd),threads)

@cuda threads=threads blocks=blocks kernel!(de, dd)
```

## Applying a function on each field array

```julia
julia> struct Foo
       a::Int
       b::String
       end

julia> s = StructArray([Foo(11, "a"), Foo(22, "b"), Foo(33, "c"), Foo(44, "d"), Foo(55, "e")]);

julia> s
5-element StructArray(::Vector{Int64}, ::Vector{String}) with eltype Foo:
 Foo(11, "a")
 Foo(22, "b")
 Foo(33, "c")
 Foo(44, "d")
 Foo(55, "e")

julia> StructArrays.foreachfield(v -> deleteat!(v, 3), s)

julia> s
4-element StructArray(::Vector{Int64}, ::Vector{String}) with eltype Foo:
 Foo(11, "a")
 Foo(22, "b")
 Foo(44, "d")
 Foo(55, "e")
```

## Advanced: StructArrays versus struct-of-arrays layout in higher-dimensional array

Regular arrays of structs can sometimes be reinterpreted as arrays of primitive values with an added
initial dimension.

```julia
julia> v = [1.0+3im, 2.0-im]
2-element Vector{ComplexF64}:
 1.0 + 3.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> reinterpret(reshape, Float64, v)
2×2 reinterpret(reshape, Float64, ::Vector{ComplexF64}) with eltype Float64:
 1.0   2.0
 3.0  -1.0
```

However, the situation is more complex for the `StructArray` format, where `s = StructArray(v)` is
stored as two separate `Vector{Float64}`. `reinterpret` on `StructArray` returns an
"array-of-structs" layout, as the reinterpretation works element-wise:

```julia
julia> s = StructArray([1.0+3im, 2.0-im])
2-element StructArray(::Vector{Float64}, ::Vector{Float64}) with eltype ComplexF64:
 1.0 + 1.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> reinterpret(reshape, Float64, s) # The actual memory is `([1.0, 2.0], [3.0, -1.0])`
2×2 reinterpret(reshape, Float64, StructArray(::Vector{Float64}, ::Vector{Float64})) with eltype Float64:
 1.0   2.0
 3.0  -1.0
```

If you already have a `StructArray`, the easiest way is to get the higher-dimensional
"struct-of-arrays" layout is to directly stack the components in memory order:

```julia
julia> using StackViews # lazily cat/stack arrays in a new tailing dimension

julia> StackView(StructArrays.components(s)...)
2×2 StackView{Float64, 2, 2, Tuple{Vector{Float64}, Vector{Float64}}}:
 1.0   3.0
 2.0  -1.0
```

StructArrays also provides a way to reconstruct from a given memory block via `dims` keyword:

```julia
julia> v = Float64[1 3; 2 -1]
2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
 1.0   3.0
 2.0  -1.0

julia> StructArray{ComplexF64}(v, dims=1) # the actual memory is `([1.0, 3.0], [2.0, -1.0])`
2-element StructArray(view(::Matrix{Float64}, 1, :), view(::Matrix{Float64}, 2, :)) with eltype ComplexF64:
 1.0 + 2.0im
 3.0 - 1.0im

julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}(v, dims=2) # the actual memory is `([1.0, 2.0], [3.0, -1.0])`
2-element StructArray(view(::Matrix{Float64}, :, 1), view(::Matrix{Float64}, :, 2)) with eltype ComplexF64:
 1.0 + 3.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im
```

This, however, depends on the underlying data layout and how you interpret the memory block. You
should use this with caution because otherwise it might give you unexpected results. To get the
"same" memory layout with the raw data `v`, you can always pass `dims=ndims(v)`.

Commit message:

explain the memory order and the view perspective

README.md, after:

# StructArrays

[![CI](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+branch%3Amaster)
[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/JuliaArrays/StructArrays.jl?branch=master)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://JuliaArrays.github.io/StructArrays.jl/dev)

This package introduces the type `StructArray` which is an `AbstractArray` whose elements are `struct` (for example `NamedTuples`,  or `ComplexF64`, or a custom user defined `struct`). While a `StructArray` iterates `structs`, the layout is column based (meaning each field of the `struct` is stored in a separate `Array`).

`Base.getproperty` or the dot syntax can be used to access columns, whereas rows can be accessed with `getindex`.

The package was largely inspired by the `Columns` type in [IndexedTables](https://github.com/JuliaComputing/IndexedTables.jl) which it now replaces.

## Example usage to store complex numbers

```julia
julia> using StructArrays, Random

julia> Random.seed!(4);

julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}((rand(2,2), rand(2,2)))
2×2 StructArray(::Array{Float64,2}, ::Array{Float64,2}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 0.680079+0.625239im   0.92407+0.267358im
 0.874437+0.737254im  0.929336+0.804478im

julia> s[1, 1]
0.680079235935741 + 0.6252391193298537im

julia> s.re
2×2 Array{Float64,2}:
 0.680079  0.92407
 0.874437  0.929336

julia> StructArrays.components(s) # obtain all field arrays as a named tuple
(re = [0.680079 0.92407; 0.874437 0.929336], im = [0.625239 0.267358; 0.737254 0.804478])
```

Note that the same approach can be used directly from an `Array` of complex numbers:

```julia
julia> StructArray([1+im, 3-2im])
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype Complex{Int64}:
 1 + 1im
 3 - 2im
```

### Collection and initialization

One can also create a `StructArray` from an iterable of structs without creating an intermediate `Array`:

```julia
julia> StructArray(log(j+2.0*im) for j in 1:10)
10-element StructArray(::Array{Float64,1}, ::Array{Float64,1}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 0.8047189562170501 + 1.1071487177940904im
 1.0397207708399179 + 0.7853981633974483im
 1.2824746787307684 + 0.5880026035475675im
 1.4978661367769954 + 0.4636476090008061im
  1.683647914993237 + 0.3805063771123649im
 1.8444397270569681 + 0.3217505543966422im
  1.985145956776061 + 0.27829965900511133im
 2.1097538525880535 + 0.24497866312686414im
 2.2213256282451583 + 0.21866894587394195im
 2.3221954495706862 + 0.19739555984988078im
```

Another option is to create an uninitialized `StructArray` and then fill it with data. Just like in normal arrays, this is done with the `undef` syntax:

```julia
julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}(undef, 2, 2)
2×2 StructArray(::Array{Float64,2}, ::Array{Float64,2}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im  6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im
 6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im  6.91646e-310+6.91646e-310im

julia> rand!(s)
2×2 StructArray(::Array{Float64,2}, ::Array{Float64,2}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 0.680079+0.874437im  0.625239+0.737254im
  0.92407+0.929336im  0.267358+0.804478im
```

### Using custom array types

StructArrays supports using custom array types. It is always possible to pass field arrays of a custom type. The "custom array of structs to struct of custom arrays" transformation will use the `similar` method of the custom array type. This can be useful when working on the GPU for example:

```julia
julia> using StructArrays, CuArrays

julia> a = CuArray(rand(Float32, 10));

julia> b = CuArray(rand(Float32, 10));

julia> StructArray{ComplexF32}((a, b))
10-element StructArray(::CuArray{Float32,1}, ::CuArray{Float32,1}) with eltype Complex{Float32}:
  0.19555175f0 + 0.9604322f0im
  0.68348145f0 + 0.5778245f0im
  0.69664395f0 + 0.79825306f0im
 0.118531585f0 + 0.3031248f0im
  0.80057466f0 + 0.8964418f0im
  0.63772964f0 + 0.2923274f0im
  0.65374136f0 + 0.7932533f0im
   0.6043732f0 + 0.65964353f0im
   0.1106627f0 + 0.090207934f0im
    0.707458f0 + 0.1700114f0im

julia> c = CuArray(rand(ComplexF32, 10));

julia> StructArray(c)
10-element StructArray(::Array{Float32,1}, ::Array{Float32,1}) with eltype Complex{Float32}:
  0.7176411f0 + 0.864058f0im
   0.252609f0 + 0.14824867f0im
 0.26842773f0 + 0.9084332f0im
 0.33128333f0 + 0.5106474f0im
  0.6509278f0 + 0.87059164f0im
  0.9522146f0 + 0.053706646f0im
   0.899577f0 + 0.63242567f0im
   0.325814f0 + 0.59225655f0im
 0.56267905f0 + 0.21927536f0im
 0.49719965f0 + 0.754143f0im
```

If you already have your data in a `StructArray` with field arrays of a given format (say plain `Array`) you can change them with `replace_storage`:

```julia
julia> s = StructArray([1.0+im, 2.0-im])
2-element StructArray(::Array{Float64,1}, ::Array{Float64,1}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 1.0 + 1.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> replace_storage(CuArray, s)
2-element StructArray(::CuArray{Float64,1}, ::CuArray{Float64,1}) with eltype Complex{Float64}:
 1.0 + 1.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im
```

## Example usage to store a data table

```julia
julia> t = StructArray((a = [1, 2], b = ["x", "y"]))
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{String,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,String}}:
 (a = 1, b = "x")
 (a = 2, b = "y")

julia> t[1]
(a = 1, b = "x")

julia> t.a
2-element Array{Int64,1}:
 1
 2

julia> push!(t, (a = 3, b = "z"))
3-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{String,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,String}}:
 (a = 1, b = "x")
 (a = 2, b = "y")
 (a = 3, b = "z")
```

### Lazy row iteration

StructArrays also provides a `LazyRow` wrapper for lazy row iteration. `LazyRow(t, i)` does not materialize the i-th row but returns a lazy wrapper around it on which `getproperty` does the correct thing. This is useful when the row has many fields only some of which are necessary. It also allows changing columns in place.

```julia
julia> t = StructArray((a = [1, 2], b = ["x", "y"]));

julia> LazyRow(t, 2).a
2

julia> LazyRow(t, 2).a = 123
123

julia> t
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{String,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,String}}:
 (a = 1, b = "x")
 (a = 123, b = "y")
```

To iterate in a lazy way one can simply iterate `LazyRows`:

```julia
julia> map(t -> t.b ^ t.a, LazyRows(t))
2-element Array{String,1}:
 "x"
 "yy"
```

## Advanced: structures with non-standard data layout

StructArrays support structures with custom data layout. The user is required to overload `staticschema` in order to define the custom layout, `component` to access fields of the custom layout, and `createinstance(T, fields...)` to create an instance of type `T` from its custom fields `fields`. In other word, given `x::T`, `createinstance(T, (component(x, f) for f in fieldnames(staticschema(T)))...)` should successfully return an instance of type `T`.

Here is an example of a type `MyType` that has as custom fields either its field `data` or fields of its field `rest` (which is a named tuple):

```julia
using StructArrays

struct MyType{T, NT<:NamedTuple}
    data::T
    rest::NT
end

MyType(x; kwargs...) = MyType(x, values(kwargs))

function StructArrays.staticschema(::Type{MyType{T, NamedTuple{names, types}}}) where {T, names, types}
    return NamedTuple{(:data, names...), Base.tuple_type_cons(T, types)}
end

function StructArrays.component(m::MyType, key::Symbol)
    return key === :data ? getfield(m, 1) : getfield(getfield(m, 2), key)
end

# generate an instance of MyType type
function StructArrays.createinstance(::Type{MyType{T, NT}}, x, args...) where {T, NT}
    return MyType(x, NT(args))
end

s = [MyType(rand(), a=1, b=2) for i in 1:10]
StructArray(s)
```

In the above example, our `MyType` was composed of `data` of type `Float64` and `rest` of type `NamedTuple`. In many practical cases where there are custom types involved it's hard for StructArrays to automatically widen the types in case they are heterogeneous. The following example demonstrates a widening method in that scenario.

```julia
using Tables

# add a source of custom type data
struct Location{U}
    x::U
    y::U
end
struct Region{V}
    area::V
end

s1 = MyType(Location(1, 0), place = "Delhi", rainfall = 200)
s2 = MyType(Location(2.5, 1.9), place = "Mumbai", rainfall = 1010)
s3 = MyType(Region([Location(1, 0), Location(2.5, 1.9)]), place = "North India", rainfall = missing)

s = [s1, s2, s3]
# Now if we try to do StructArray(s)
# we will get an error

function meta_table(iter)
    cols = Tables.columntable(iter)
    meta_table(first(cols), Base.tail(cols)) 
end

function meta_table(data, rest::NT) where NT<:NamedTuple
    F = MyType{eltype(data), StructArrays.eltypes(NT)}
    return StructArray{F}(; data=data, rest...)
end

meta_table(s)
```

The above strategy has been tested and implemented in [GeometryBasics.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGeometry/GeometryBasics.jl).

## Advanced: mutate-or-widen style accumulation

StructArrays provides a function `StructArrays.append!!(dest, src)` (unexported) for "mutate-or-widen" style accumulation.  This function can be used via [`BangBang.append!!`](https://juliafolds.github.io/BangBang.jl/dev/#BangBang.append!!) and [`BangBang.push!!`](https://juliafolds.github.io/BangBang.jl/dev/#BangBang.push!!) as well.

`StructArrays.append!!` works like `append!(dest, src)` if `dest` can contain all element types in `src` iterator; i.e., it _mutates_ `dest` in-place:

```julia
julia> dest = StructVector((a=[1], b=[2]))
1-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,Int64}}:
 (a = 1, b = 2)

julia> StructArrays.append!!(dest, [(a = 3, b = 4)])
2-element StructArray(::Array{Int64,1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,Int64}}:
 (a = 1, b = 2)
 (a = 3, b = 4)

julia> ans === dest
true
```

Unlike `append!`, `append!!` can also _widen_ element type of `dest` array:

```julia
julia> StructArrays.append!!(dest, [(a = missing, b = 6)])
3-element StructArray(::Array{Union{Missing, Int64},1}, ::Array{Int64,1}) with eltype NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}:
 NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}((1, 2))
 NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}((3, 4))
 NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Union{Missing, Int64},Int64}}((missing, 6))

julia> ans === dest
false
```

Since the original array `dest` cannot hold the input, a new array is created (`ans !== dest`).

Combined with [function barriers](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/performance-tips/#kernel-functions-1), `append!!` is a useful building block for implementing `collect`-like functions.

## Advanced: using StructArrays in CUDA kernels

It is possible to combine StructArrays with [CUDAnative](https://github.com/JuliaGPU/CUDAnative.jl), in order to create CUDA kernels that work on StructArrays directly on the GPU. Make sure you are familiar with the CUDAnative documentation (esp. kernels with plain `CuArray`s) before experimenting with kernels based on `StructArray`s.

```julia
using CUDAnative, CuArrays, StructArrays
d = StructArray(a = rand(100), b = rand(100))

# move to GPU
dd = replace_storage(CuArray, d)
de = similar(dd)

# a simple kernel, to copy the content of `dd` onto `de`
function kernel!(dest, src)
    i = (blockIdx().x-1)*blockDim().x + threadIdx().x
    if i <= length(dest)
        dest[i] = src[i]
    end
    return nothing
end

threads = 1024
blocks = cld(length(dd),threads)

@cuda threads=threads blocks=blocks kernel!(de, dd)
```

## Applying a function on each field array

```julia
julia> struct Foo
       a::Int
       b::String
       end

julia> s = StructArray([Foo(11, "a"), Foo(22, "b"), Foo(33, "c"), Foo(44, "d"), Foo(55, "e")]);

julia> s
5-element StructArray(::Vector{Int64}, ::Vector{String}) with eltype Foo:
 Foo(11, "a")
 Foo(22, "b")
 Foo(33, "c")
 Foo(44, "d")
 Foo(55, "e")

julia> StructArrays.foreachfield(v -> deleteat!(v, 3), s)

julia> s
4-element StructArray(::Vector{Int64}, ::Vector{String}) with eltype Foo:
 Foo(11, "a")
 Foo(22, "b")
 Foo(44, "d")
 Foo(55, "e")
```

## Advanced: StructArrays versus struct-of-arrays layout in higher-dimensional array

Regular arrays of structs can sometimes be reinterpreted as arrays of primitive values with an added
initial dimension.

```julia
julia> v = [1.0+3im, 2.0-im]
2-element Vector{ComplexF64}:
 1.0 + 3.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> reinterpret(reshape, Float64, v)
2×2 reinterpret(reshape, Float64, ::Vector{ComplexF64}) with eltype Float64:
 1.0   2.0
 3.0  -1.0
```

However, the situation is more complex for the `StructArray` format, where `s = StructArray(v)` is
stored as two separate `Vector{Float64}`. `reinterpret` on `StructArray` returns an
"array-of-structs" layout, as the reinterpretation works element-wise:

```julia
julia> s = StructArray([1.0+3im, 2.0-im])
2-element StructArray(::Vector{Float64}, ::Vector{Float64}) with eltype ComplexF64:
 1.0 + 1.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> reinterpret(reshape, Float64, s) # The actual memory is `([1.0, 2.0], [3.0, -1.0])`
2×2 reinterpret(reshape, Float64, StructArray(::Vector{Float64}, ::Vector{Float64})) with eltype Float64:
 1.0   2.0
 3.0  -1.0
```

If you already have a `StructArray`, the easiest way is to get the higher-dimensional
"struct-of-arrays" layout is to directly stack the components in memory order:

```julia
julia> using StackViews # lazily cat/stack arrays in a new tailing dimension

julia> StackView(StructArrays.components(s)...)
2×2 StackView{Float64, 2, 2, Tuple{Vector{Float64}, Vector{Float64}}}:
 1.0   3.0
 2.0  -1.0
```

StructArrays also provides `dims` keyword to reinterpret a given memory block without creating new
memory:

```julia
julia> v = Float64[1 3; 2 -1]
2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
 1.0   3.0
 2.0  -1.0

julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}(v, dims=1)
2-element StructArray(view(::Matrix{Float64}, 1, :), view(::Matrix{Float64}, 2, :)) with eltype ComplexF64:
 1.0 + 2.0im
 3.0 - 1.0im

julia> s = StructArray{ComplexF64}(v, dims=2)
2-element StructArray(view(::Matrix{Float64}, :, 1), view(::Matrix{Float64}, :, 2)) with eltype ComplexF64:
 1.0 + 3.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> s[1] = 0+0im; s # `s` is a reinterpretation view and doesn't copy memory
2-element StructArray(view(::Matrix{Float64}, :, 1), view(::Matrix{Float64}, :, 2)) with eltype ComplexF64:
 0.0 + 0.0im
 2.0 - 1.0im

julia> v # thus `v` will be modified as well
2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
 0.0   0.0
 2.0  -1.0
```

For column-major arrays, reinterpreting along the last dimension (`dims=ndims(v)`) makes every
component of `s` reflects a contiguous memory and thus will be more efficient. In previous example,
when `dims=2` we have `s.re == [1.0, 2.0]`, which reflects the first column of `v`.
